Hello and welcome everyone to this
week's Stella developer meeting. This
week we are talking to Open Seelin and
the primary focus of of this week's
meeting is the the relayer service. So
yeah please introduce yourself and
and we'll get get into it.
>> Yeah. Hi thank you. thanks for having
>> Yeah. Hi thank you. thanks for having
us. So my name is Dylan Kilkenny.  a
us. So my name is Dylan Kilkenny. a
software engineer at Open Zeppelin and
the past couple of months mainly working
on the the relay infrastructure, the
plug-in systems and specifically the the
stellar integrations.
>> Hi. Hi, my name is Sai. I'm the
engineering manager managing relays and
monitors at opening.
Hi, my name is Collins  a site
Hi, my name is Collins a site
reliability engineer supporting the
relayer u plugins that you are about to
present.
>> Great. Thank you. So we already talked a
little bit about  a little bit about
little bit about a little bit about
relayer  just very high level overview
relayer just very high level overview
in one of the previous talks we had
with open selein. So, I'm I'm excited
about diving deeper into what it is, how
it works, and and  and what you can do
it works, and and and what you can do
with it on Stella. So, please  share
with it on Stella. So, please share
your screen and let's get get started.
>> Okay, perfect. Thank you.
One second.
Okay, you can see my screen. Yeah. So
what we've been working on the past few
months what's kind of worked
[clears throat] towards is this manage
stellar relayer service and like in a
nutshell what this offers is a scalable
high throughput transaction service for
the stellar network and there are a few
components that  were involved in the
components that were involved in the
making of this and of course the first
of all is the open zeppelin reer so I'm
just going to go through like a few of
the things that got us here and like
what it took to to build this  like
what it took to to build this like
first of all you've you've mentioned
you've already spoken about like the
relayer service but just to go over
quickly again  the open zeppelin
quickly again the open zeppelin
relayer is an open source tool and it it
simplifies the transaction management
for multiple different networks
including stellar and what that means is
like it'll handle the gas it will handle
the sequence numbers the reliability
like the retries  if a transaction
like the retries if a transaction
fails  so like this is useful for a
fails so like this is useful for a
number of reasons  such as gasless
number of reasons such as gasless
transactions or automating transactions
or like scalable workloads.
But one of the one of the valuable
aspects of this type of tool is  that
aspects of this type of tool is that
it's secure and secure key management is
one of the most important features. And
in the case of Stellar, we support
KMS signing, turnkey signing,  or
KMS signing, turnkey signing, or
local signers even.
so yeah a couple of months ago or a few
months ago we started working on a
stellar integration for this tool and in
doing so  we now offer full sorban
doing so we now offer full sorban
smart contract functionality. So it
allows users to deploy contracts through
the open zeppelin relayer. They can
invoke contracts then standard
stellar xlm payments.  and like as I
stellar xlm payments. and like as I
mentioned this offers this is included
with  KMS signing and turnkey signing.
with KMS signing and turnkey signing.
but there there are some limitations
to  how you can send transactions
to how you can send transactions
through the stellar network and and one
of which would be  the the sequence
of which would be the the sequence
number having  I'm not sure how to put
number having I'm not sure how to put
this clearly but causing issues with
scalability like high throughput
transactions. And so we were working
towards  developing some features
towards developing some features
within the relayer that will allow the
stellar relayers to scale  larger. And
stellar relayers to scale larger. And
one of the the features that enabled us
to do this was the relayer plug-in
system. So in a nutshell what this does
is allows us to extend a standard
relayer with ex with  further
relayer with ex with further
functionality. So from a developer's
perspective, what you would do is write
some TypeScript code and inside this
plug-in, you would have access to the
relay system for submitting
transactions, signing transactions,
querying state, etc. And you would still
communicate to the to the open zeppelin
relayer through the the rest API, but
you would be calling this plug-in
directly. And in the case of Stellar,
we've used this system for developing a
channels plug-in. So the channels
plug-in allows allows users to submit
transactions in parallel and the the key
workflow here is that we use channel
accounts for building the transaction.
So in this plug-in system in this spec
specific plug-in called the channels
plug-in we manage a pool of channel
channel accounts and the user sends a
request and we acquire a channel
account. We sign the user's transaction
with that channel account and then we
submit it to the stellar network  with
submit it to the stellar network with
a fee bump transaction as well. So it's
also gasless.  so yeah parallel
also gasless. so yeah parallel
transaction processing automatic fee
bumping and this includes  an SDK
bumping and this includes an SDK
client so that users can  quickly send
client so that users can quickly send
transactions or pain painlessly and I'll
give a demo of that at the end of this
anyway but just to walk through the the
flow of of what happens here. So from
the client the user will send a request.
The request goes to the relayer and the
reer invokes the plug-in. The plugin
then acquires a channel account. This
channel account is managed by the realer
that I must say all of these accounts
are managed by the realer but the
plug-in is able to lock one and then
sign a transaction with that channel
account. And that transaction is the one
that the user sent. And we then wrap
that in a fee bump and submit it to the
stellar network. Once the transaction
confirms, we release the lock and we
send the result back to the user. So the
the system is is scalable by the number
of  channel accounts that we have to
of channel accounts that we have to
offer. So if we if we if we put 200
channel accounts in the system, you can
send 200 transactions in parallel with
with one user account.  and just
with one user account. and just
quickly on the on the account pooling
system we have here. So  the plug-in
system we have here. So the plug-in
system behind the scenes is using Reddus
to manage the the pool of accounts. So
an incoming request comes in, we try to
lock the account. If it's available, we
can acquire it, process transaction. If
it's not, we try again on the next
account. So  it's it's it's it's
account. So it's it's it's it's
pretty straightforward.  and just
pretty straightforward. and just
quickly on
the SD SDK client itself. So this is
what it would look like for sending
transaction.  so we have this channels
transaction. so we have this channels
client and right now the the base URL is
pointing at  channels.openzeppland.com
pointing at channels.openzeppland.com
which isn't live yet. We're still
working on getting that live either
tomorrow or by Monday. But this could
also be  you can also send this these
also be you can also send this these
requests to your own self-hosted relay.
Right? So this doesn't have to go
through the through the managed service
that we provide. So this plug-in is all
open source. The open reception relay is
open source. So  anyone can just spin
open source. So anyone can just spin
up their own instance and manage their
own channel accounts. But we will be
offering this as a service and man
managing it all  for you as well. So
managing it all for you as well. So
it's quite simple.  set up the client
it's quite simple. set up the client
and to submit a transaction you in this
case we're submitting a sorbent
transaction so you just provide the the
function XDR and the attached XDR and an
example of the response would be like so
so this is the transaction ID for the
relayer and the hash  for the
relayer and the hash for the
transaction itself
so in the case of someone who is running
a self-hosted version they would want to
manage  the channel accounts. So there
manage the channel accounts. So there
is  some methods in the SDK that will
is some methods in the SDK that will
allow you to list what channel accounts
are available on the service and also
add new ones. So if you needed to
increase the throughput you could you
could add more channel accounts or if
there's  some issue you can remove
there's some issue you can remove
some etc.  so yeah in a nutshell all
some etc. so yeah in a nutshell all
of these things have come together and
we're offering a stellar relays
managed service. So this would include
the the relayer service itself and the
channel accounts plugin the SDK but also
the cloud infrastructure. So just a
bit of a like a peak into  what it
bit of a like a peak into what it
takes to to run this on the cloud. So we
are
we are using AWS Fargate for managing
diff v a v various number of tasks
running the relayer service and  a
running the relayer service and a
shared reddus instance. So we have the
same pool of channel accounts across
tasks.  and the client's SDK goes up
tasks. and the client's SDK goes up
through the the Cloudflare proxy sends
it down to the load balance balancer
which then  distributes it to to
which then distributes it to to
whichever task is free.  so yeah
whichever task is free. so yeah
that's pretty much the overview and I
can just give you a quick  demo right
can just give you a quick demo right
now. But first,
yes. So like this is just a demo script
as we've already seen  how you would
as we've already seen how you would
instantiate the client and I have a
little helper function here for building
a sorbent transaction and here we pass
the function in a to the client itself.
So
just want to point out first though that
in order to use the service you need to
get a API key. So you can just call
the domain channels.open.com/gen
to get an API key.
And for the sake of this
demo, I'm just going to
add the API key here
and call the demo script.
So this is going through the staging
environment that we have for the managed
service right now.
Okay. So the transaction is confirmed.
just to
double check that
yeah transaction was successful. And
just to demonstrate the the parallel
processing of this I also have a
parallel  demo.
So, this is sending 10 transactions
at the same time with  the exact same
at the same time with the exact same
account that I sent the the demo
transaction with previously. It's just
one account. And  yeah, that's pretty
one account. And yeah, that's pretty
much it. Any questions, let me know.
>> Great. So, I'm I'm a little bit curious
about the the managed  service
about the the managed service
because it seems like  of course
because it seems like of course
depending on your use case that
especially for maybe testing it out, it
it it seems like a lot more convenient
to just  try it out with the with the
to just try it out with the with the
managed service. How how does that work?
How do I get set up with that?
So we are finalizing the the
documentation and the the SDK
today. So once we have
all of that documentation published on
our  site the your community will be
our site the your community will be
able to access it and it's a pretty
straightforward
setup like as as you seen with the
demo.  [snorts]
demo. [snorts]
>> yeah.
>> Okay. Great. And and if I want to run
this on it is open sourced. I see that I
I can run it on my own
>> environment. what do I need? I saw
>> environment. what do I need? I saw
you mentioned the Reddus Reddus
database. Is there anything else I need
to to set up to to run it?
>> Yeah, it's a good question. So we in the
documentation we actually have all of
this listed out and we provided  in
this listed out and we provided in
the open zeppelin repo open zeppelin
relay repo an example configuration
using docker. So all with what someone
would need to do is go into
the repo and run that docker config and
it would spin up the service with the
channels plugin already installed and
everything's ready to go like all you
need to do is start sending requests to
it.  but the open zeppelin
it. but the open zeppelin
real air like reddus is required of
course you need the real air installed
and all the all the various other
dependencies but  there are some
dependencies but there are some
example configs that get you up and
running pretty quickly.
>> Okay, great. Sounds pretty easy though.
what are the the use cases where who
do you think are going to use this the
most?  any specific DAP types or any
most? any specific DAP types or any
any use cases that you have in mind that
you think will adopt this?
>> Yeah, look, I think it's it's super good
for someone who needs high throughput
transaction processing.  and also the
transaction processing. and also the
ga the gasless aspect of it is super
convenient as well. So users don't have
to worry about gas, they don't have to
worry about sequence numbers. , so you
can see
apps like games or various other
services that might want to use it. But
even you someone who wants to self-host
this themselves, the the it's open
source. So you can extend this any way
you want like the core the core
primitives are there which is
gaslessness  high throughput like
gaslessness high throughput like
sequence number management etc. And you
can build on top of that like whatever
you need.
>> Great. Do you have any I I know you
>> Great. Do you have any I I know you
you you mentioned that the the
documentation and everything for the the
managed service is going to to be
available very soon, but do you have any
examples of how to use it? I know you
showed one, but do you have like a
GitHub repo or an example library?
So,
we have a plug-in repo up right now.
just one second.
So there are some examples in this repo.
I'm just going to share it in where
should I share it?
>> can you share it in the post it as
>> can you share it in the post it as
a comment?
>> Okay. Comments.
I shared it in the private chat because
I don't think I'm logged in.
>> I'll just I'll just copy it over.
So yeah, there's  a pretty extensive
So yeah, there's a pretty extensive
overview of in the readme of this
repo of how the plug-in system works for
the channels the channel account. And
once
once the service is live in production
like it's it's only a case of being of
substituting your local  relay local
substituting your local relay local
host with the the production URL and
also I'm just going to share the
examples from the relay repo as well and
that should give
honestly with just these two things you
can get up and running locally  pretty
can get up and running locally pretty
quickly.
>> Okay, great.
, and this is the example in the relay
repo. And there's also  a read me in
repo. And there's also a read me in
that as well, which
is
extensive and  it should get people up
extensive and it should get people up
and running.
>> Yeah, I I have I have actually gone
through the the read me and and taking a
look at it and it does look it looks
like the it's very detailed. , so I
just haven't I haven't tried to set it
up myself yet.
>> Okay.
>> Looking looking forward to that.
>> Yeah. Well, let me know if you have any
feedback. ,
I hope that it's  it's simple even
I hope that it's it's simple even
though I think it is.
>> Yeah. Any any questions from anyone
watching then  feel free to to post it
watching then feel free to to post it
in the comments.
Carson, I just posted  the
Carson, I just posted the
documentation  which should be
documentation which should be
available on docs.openszprint.com.
So, I just sent the link.
>> Yeah, I posted it.
>> Thanks.
>> Great. Well, if there's no comments or
any questions from Let me just check one
more time.
doesn't seem to be the case. But it was
great to  to get to get a little bit
great to to get to get a little bit
more information about the the relayer
and to see an example of how to use it.
I think it's it's a super helpful tool
and and  I think for now  I think I
and and I think for now I think I
will I will try using the manage version
first u when it goes live. It seems like
an easy way for me to test out the the
the tool. I I don't necessarily need to
to spin up my own infrastructure for
this.  so I'll look forward to have an
this. so I'll look forward to have an
opportunity to play with it. And
thank you everyone for for watching and
thank you all three of you for for
joining today. And please go check out
the links  take a look look at it and
the links take a look look at it and
yeah, thank you all for joining.
Thank you.
>> Okay. Thank you.
Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye.